Describe an example of your leadership experience in which you have positively influenced others, helped resolve disputes, or contributed to group efforts over time. 250-350W


Everyday at 3 pm. Through snow, rain, and blistering sun, the Westview XC team met by the ticket booth and concessions stand for runs. Coming off a successful cross country season, the entire team was looking to run record times in track. Fast forward to March 10, two days before the first meet: the season is canceled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. With the entire world abruptly halted, months went by without a team meeting. With no season in sight, our coaches resigned and it eventually came time for seniors to graduate. We tried to keep everyone together through virtual chess tournaments and Jackbox, but without clear leadership, the team slowly dissipated throughout the year. 
When state guidelines allowed us to practice again, there were 5 people out of tahe 130 who were previously on the team. Without a team, coach, or captain, there was no motivation for any new or returning athletes to show up:it seemed like my time running for Westview was coming to an anticlimactic ending. With so much left to accomplish and unwilling to let the hard work of myself and my teammates be wasted like this, I created a mailing list of  all eligible athletes and their parents, updating them with any new information and encouraging them to keep running. Contacting the athletic director, we scheduled a temporary time slot and led practices before an official coach was announced.  By the end of the month, 50 of us were meeting at the red ticket booth and battling through the pouring rain and snow and running as if nothing changed. 
Joining the Westview running community created a community like no other, so leading the community back together to give others the same experience was the least I could do.  Through college I plan to utilize and develop these leadership skills by participating in various clubs and school activities, and eventually  take these refined skills and demonstrate and lead in my workplace.       
5.  Think about an academic subject that inspires you. Describe how you have furthered this interest inside and/or outside of the classroom.
When I was six years old I watched my first basketball game on TV: The Dallas Mavericks Vs. The Denver Nuggets, Live on ABC. As the players ran up and down a court dribbling a basketball, various numbers and graphics transitioned at the bottom of the screen next to the scoreboard. Staring at these seemingly random numbers and acronyms, I sat with my dad looking up the definitions of these terms. Field goal percentage, true shooting percentage, effective field goal percentage, the list went on. I decided that these terms held the secrets to the world, and finding out what these terms mean, I could become a billionaire. Going through each team announced in the NCAA March Madness Tournament, I went through and ranked each team by their field goal percentages per game in order of best to worst and then filled out my bracket accordingly hoping to win the billion-dollar prize from Warren Buffet. As expected, I lost my perfect bracket almost immediately with my first seed losing the first round, but the fascination about these large data sets and their functions led me to pursue investigating how I can apply them.
Fast forward ten years later, I spent the summer interning at the Oregon Museum of Science and Industry (OMSI) working to create a data-driven exhibit and demonstrations about Urban Heat Islands (UHI), the concept that urban areas are hotter than their surrounding areas due to lack of greenery and construction, Through my time there, I witnessed and utilized the power of data and how it can save the world. I spent weeks pouring over every statistic, story, and trend to create demonstrations and panels to inform the world about UHI's and their relation to climate change and how to mitigate and help those affected. 
Throughout the years, from attempting to predict the results of the NCAA tournament, to creating exhibits informing the world about issues and what they can do to help. With this background, I hope to pursue a career in data science to further explore climate change, the affected groups and how to help.

7. What have you done to make your school or your community a better place?
Finding myself folding balloons into an inflatable dog while children cheered me on, I thought to myself  "how did I get here?"
I sat in a zoom call anxiously waiting for my mentees to join the room for our first lab of the year. "Join Science Ambassadors, it'll be fun." I thought to myself before I heard a pencil drop. I looked at my screen to see 3 pairs of eager pre-teen's eyes judging me. After watching numerous horror movies, I felt like I was pretty prepared for scary situations. That was until I joined Science Ambassadors: a mentor-mentee program where we teach the elementary schoolers Basic STEM concepts of biology, physics, and chemistry. Nothing scared me more than the judgmental look of an elementary schooler. 
	Flustered, I booted up the lesson, completely forgetting about introductions until halfway through the lab where I awkwardly introduced myself. Ending the lesson, I held my head in embarrassment; I knew they were laughing at me. Determined to leave a better impression next week, I wrote out introductions and icebreaker questions to properly introduce myself and acquaint myself with the mentees. As the weeks went by I started to get closer with the mentees, and they felt similar, telling me more and more about their lives, struggles with online school, and interests. 
Finally, during one of the last meetings of the year, one of the mentee's parents was helping with an experiment, and they mentioned how much her child looks forward to these classes every week and what it meant to them. Looking at the other mentees I saw them nod in agreement and it occurred to me how much this position meant. Over the months I spent with these kids, I didn't just teach them about buoyancy and diffusion, but rather I was helping these kids foster and develop interests at a young age. My involvement in science ambassadors and its influence on the younger generation led me to reflect on myself and how teaching these kids allowed me to better myself through confidence and the lasting impressions of my actions.
Describe how you have taken advantage of a significant educational opportunity or worked to overcome an educational barrier you have faced.
Looking to cut 16 words 
Before the hours spent in front of my Logitech web camera recording virtual presentations for judges in formals and PJs bottoms, my humble beginnings started with accidentally forecasting for marketing 1 instead of sports and retail marketing. With Westview being one of the biggest DECA programs in the state, every business class centered their curriculums around creating a project that could be presented at DECA. 
Dragging my feet into marketing 1 on the first day of school, I listened to the teacher gloss over the curriculum and skip directly to the DECA project for the marketing 1 class: a 10-minute presentation selling cloud-based computing software to a small business. All of those words made me shake, struggling to remember the last time I got a good score on a presentation, much less a 10 minute one. Fighting off the urge to quit, I started to fill out the guiding document. Through months of 2 am research and planning, I gathered my material and presented, placing in the top 20 at the conference. Reading through my judges feedback, I was "prepared with my information but I was quiet, talked fast, mumbled my words." Frustrated but motivated, I set a goal for myself that by the next conference I would learn how to present and qualify for internationals.
Logging into my Marketing 2 class the following year, I eagerly waited for the teacher to announce the project for this year. A research project helping local businesses regain customer loyalty from the pandemic as well as a 20-page paper and a 10-minute presentation detailing our process and results. Contrary to last year, I faced these tasks with confidence and experience, meticulously taking notes on our process of reaching out to businesses and customers to obtain data. The weekend before the competition, I spent my time presenting to my seniors specifically focusing on improving the clarity and speed of my speech. Reaping the fruits of our labor, our group placed 2nd at the state conference and top 30 at the international level. The opportunities offered from Marketing 1-3 and DECA led me to explore outside my comfort zones and experience a business environment while also teaching me invaluable life skills.
